Rick Reynolds came up and put his hand over my
shoulder and said, well, he'd been crying, but he
said, now you've got something to tell your older
brother about. You made it. And you feel a relief
and a true elation because now you realize you're
an upperclassman. And, of course, when you get
back the fall of your sophomore year, you realize
you're not much of an upperclassman. But a lot of
elation. And so you go home. How, at the end of that
freshman year? Near as I remember. My mother came
and picked me up. I don't recall much about the trip
home. I'd torn my knee, my ACL and medial meniscus
in the fall playing intramural football, and so I
went home for knee surgery. and was operated. Then
I spent, after I recovered, went on to work the
second half of summer up in Colorado. And so things
were a little foggy back then, but I just get my knee
repaired and go on. Having had the knee injury, I
ended up through my freshman and the rest of my
sophomore year, doing special weight training
for my legs with Emil Mammoliga was over, and a
wonderful guy, neat guy, and I really got a lot out
of that. Met some wonderful people there in the
athletic department, and they were very, very
nice to me. Someone, I guess he took me in, he had a
class of jocks in some sort of kinesiology or
something and was explaining knee injuries and so
had me stand up on a desk and demonstrate what had
happened and what the procedure was that fixed my
knee and that sort of thing. Did you become
acquainted with the quack shack during those
days? I did. Got the flu one time, felt bad
somewhere during that year and went and realized
that the guys that were in there were a lot sicker
than me and I didn't want to stay. and hobbled over
there the day after I'd torn my knee up, and it was
swollen, and that's about where we were at that
time. It was a quack shack, and it was not a whole lot
to be done. Do you remember who the docs were? Don't
remember. Where was the surgery done? The surgery
was done in Midland. In Midland, okay. Yeah, it was
done with Dad being a general surgeon. One of his
colleagues, Dr. Thurston Dean, repaired my knee.
As you get here as a sophomore, what was it like in
your outfit to be a a sophomore? Well, we were
pretty fired up and we were ready to go. We had a lot
of freshmen coming in and you're full of piss and
vinegar and you're ready to be an upperclassman
and it didn't take too long when the orders started
coming down and you didn't perform to realize that
you were still a freshman in many ways. We had our,
oh I guess what are you, squad leaders, I guess. I
was a squad leader. There were many of my buddies.
And you start working your freshman. But this was a
wonderful time, because you start meeting new
people. They're in your outfit. And you're the
enemy, because you're the upperclassmen. And you
can't fraternize with them in your own outfit. But
I had a few of kindred spirit that shared some of the
hunting and fishing things. And it wasn't long,
and you learn to close the door. OK, guys, let's
talk. And one of them was Mike Streetman, who owns
Garcia's Cafe here now. Mike Bell, who's a pilot
for Southwest Airlines, we've run into each
other. Back when we were in the Air Force, we'd run
into each other. Yeah, it was an upper class, but it
was a little bit different as a sophomore. It's not
near as meaningful as your freshman year, there's
no way. You can't have near the memories, and you
have a lot more pressure. And academically, you
never thought about changing majors? I never did.
Vet school was my focus because we felt that, both
my parents and myself, a degree in veterinary
medicine would give me the broadest base to do
something in the natural sciences. I wasn't fixed
on being a private clinical practitioner, but vet
school was my goal. And that was my big goal during
my sophomore year, and I almost didn't make it. I
went core happy, and I got really hit up with being
an upperclassman and being a sharp cadet, and
grades suffered for the first time. Yeah, they
went down. So I did better as a freshman than I did as
a sophomore. And I posted a, I think it was like a 3.1
or a 3.2 the fall semester of my sophomore year. And
so that got my attention. And I'd run into my first
difficult, truly hard class, and that was organic
chemistry. For me, it was difficult. I didn't
enjoy it. I hated the labs. And I was telling Kyle
earlier, we walked by the chemistry building. I
was in an organic chemistry lab. One of the
upperclassmen in my outfit, a junior, was in that
class, had not done well. He had been trying to get
into, had a professional degree plan but was not
doing well and had done something, not really
wrong, but to irk his Chinese lab instructor. And
the Chinese lab instructor said he was going to
fail him. And he said, I've done everything right.
And he said, no, you know, and he was duty bound. He
was going to give him an F. And this upperclassman,
and I can't remember his name, but I can remember it
like it was yesterday, grabbed that lab
instructor and held him out of the four-story
window in the chemistry department, told him he
was either, you pass me or I drop you. And Kyle asked
me, I don't remember what came of that, but I know
the upperclassman didn't get kicked out of
school, so I guess he survived that deal, but he
literally held him out of the window. Today
there'd be a lawsuit. Oh, sure, sure, sure. He'd be
dead. Now, did you go to vet school after two years?
After two years. You were gung-ho for the Corps
your second year, did your extracurricular life
change that second year in terms of dates and
social life and everything? No, my girlfriend, we
broke up that fall. She was at Baylor, and that was
the end of that. We still didn't have any wheels, so
some things didn't really change. Sophomore
wasn't really a whole lot different being a
freshman, and had dates with other girls would
come down from different places, and they start
realizing there's a whole new world out there, and
a number of wonderful young ladies from Houston,
Dallas, wherever, but no real change there. Where
did you and your buddies go on a Saturday night to
have a good time? Well, sophomores were still
underage. There wasn't really, I remember back
then there was probably four barbecue joints and
about four or five beer joints, and that was it, and
we were underage. And I was a year younger than
them, so, boy, there wasn't much. Did you all go to
the clay pits? Well, I can remember... Of course,
Whiskey Bridge, I remember going to the river.
This is one thing we didn't talk about. Back at the
start as a freshman, every year we'd have an outfit
beer bust on the Brazos River. The upperclassmen
would buy beer for the freshmen, and, of course,
you piled into cars and went out there, and you had
basically a fire, and everybody sat around
drinking beer because there wasn't anything else
to do. Typically, two or three of the freshmen
would get so drunk they'd throw up in one of the
upperclassmen's cars, and that was part of it.
usually cold so they would have to worry about
anybody well one year we had people swim the river
back and back and forth and didn't lose anybody um
did that every year and uh and there was beer and
whiskey what were people smoking then there's no
marijuana in our deal did you even know the word did
because it it existed i hadn't been around it in
high school uh just missed it i guess and There had
been somebody caught with marijuana a year or two
before I got into squadron six. One guy had had
some, but it just wasn't that, it wasn't
commonplace. It existed, you heard about it, you
heard about some of the non-regs, some of the
civilian students, but it wasn't an issue. You
gotta remember, I was in a pre-vet, primarily ag
outfit. These were country boys. And hadn't heard
of heroin? No, no, hard drugs, narcotics were not
an issue. And there really wasn't a wild place
around here. Not anywhere close to here. There was
the Lakeway Club, and the guys that got mobile,
they might go out there up in North Bryan, a country
western place. But that's pretty well it, because
drinking laws and whatnot, there was no public
place to go.
Did you go to any religious activities? Was a
Christian, am a Christian, was a Christian at the
time, but didn't have any major push to go
anywhere. There was a little Episcopal chapel
just south of the core area, and that was within
walking distance. And I'd gone to an Episcopal day
school No, seventh and eighth grade, I think. And
so I would go sporadically and enjoyed a pretty
neat little congregation, neat little
fellowship. But I wasn't a regular attender by any
means. Was Bill Oxley the minute? Yes, he was. Bill
Oxley, that's exactly right. He's now deceased,
but I saw his wife last Sunday night at one of my
faculty colleagues, Vic Treat's grandson was
baptized and Mary was there. All right. Reverend
Oxley, I can remember, I wasn't even
Episcopalian, but he always had a twinkle in his
eye. He was a neat guy, neat fella. Let's see, you
applied for vet school your sophomore year?
Sophomore year. Describe all of that routine.
Well, it's sweaty palms time. You go through, you
fill out the stuff, you make your application, was
granted an interview, so go over in uniform like
everything else. When I go into my interview Mad
Dog Davis was there Dr. John Miliff neuroanatomy
professor
let's see Ken Davis
clinical pathologist was there and maybe one
other and when I walked in the room Dr. Miliff said
where'd you learn how to shine your shoes and they
had a good spit shine and I said, that's kind of what
we do. So they want to talk about the Corps and these
were old guard fellows and they were fine. And I'm
thinking this is looking pretty good. And then
they asked me about one of my letters of
recommendation of which you've written me one,
you probably don't remember. They didn't ask
about that, but they got one from Dad Orson,
Midland, Texas, one of their classmates. whom
they had thought had been killed when the Japanese
troop transport was torpedoed in World War II, had
no idea that Dr. Orson was still alive. He didn't
practice. He was a rancher in Midland. And until
they got that letter, they had no idea. So that was
neat, and they really wanted to know all about him.
And so I'm really happy about this. I am great. I'm
in. I can't lose. And then... Dr. Davis throws out
my organic chemistry F that I had at midterm. He
says, what about this? I said, oh, that was at
midterm. We're already up to a C and we're looking
good. But he said, by God, it better be. Well, I
ended up getting accepted. And then my final
grades came out and I had a D in organic chemistry.
Because once I was accepted, I could care less. And
with a letter from Al Price, the dean at the time of
the vet school, that although it is passing, we
strongly recommend that you retake it. And I read
into it, strongly recommend, didn't say require.
So I was off to Colorado the next day for two and a
half months working in the mountains. But until I
was accepted, you sweat bullets because a number
of people, of course, applied to get into vet
school. Had over 900 applicants that year. And the
weekend that my letter came, got my mail over at the
MSC, had my little mailbox, and you'd go by and
you'd look daily, and there'd be nothing in it, and
maybe a letter from home, maybe nothing. That was
before the days of junk mail and credit cards. And
there's a letter in from the vet school that says
congratulations, and boy, I was just on cloud
nine. Had two of my buddies that were sitting
restrictions that weekend for some sin they'd
committed, and they found out, and they jumped up
and down. They were so excited. We took off. The
rest of the guys were down. There was a group that
went down to Hudgens Ramen Breeders down around
Hungerford in the Horton area. Some of them had
dates down there. And we found them at a dance hall
that night somewhere in that part of the world. The
guys were sitting restrictions. I guess, I don't
know how many restrictions they had to sit after
that, because they just bugged out and went with
them. And we had somebody that got a case of beer,
and we celebrated all the way down and back. You
said about 900 applicants. How many were
admitted? 125. Okay. And so
you must have had a number of friends who were
admitted and a number who were not here on campus.
Out of the core, yeah, I did. A number on the campus,
quite a high percentage that were pre-vet, that
were in the Honors Colloquium, I think were
accepted. Of course, a lot of vet students come
from other schools. In my outfit, three of us were
accepted. Two, Allen McClung, who's now
deceased, and Jeff Lord, who practices in San
Antonio, both got out of the Corps. I elected to
stay in. Randy Doran over in B-1 was accepted and
stayed in. And one, I believe it was one other guy in
the Corps that got out of the Corps that accepted.
The rest of them I'd known that were civilian
students. How did you let your family know that
good news? Oh, I gave them a call, and I remember my
dad's pretty quiet and mild-mannered, and I said,
Dad, I got accepted to vet school, and he said,
well, that's real nice. I'll never forget, you
know, that's, you know, Grandpa, he's about as
excited as he gets. That's real nice. Good, I'm
proud of you. That's about it, you know, but they
were... They were pleased. Did any upperclassmen
who was in vet school give you any advice then or
before you got the next fall? No, I didn't really
know any. I guess I knew one guy that was actually in
vet school at the time, and he thought it would be a
good idea that I get out of the Corps. And I didn't do
that. And I'm glad I didn't, because I didn't need
to. Other than that, I didn't know anything about
vet school until I got there. All right. So you go
home for the summer, come back in the fall. Right.
And vet school began at about the same time as...
Right. About the same time I got back in time to
start my core activities, and I think I had an extra
day or two. I'd bought a car that summer. I needed to
have a car to get out to the vet school, so I bought my
first car. I used Mach 1 Mustang. And... started
going out and going to classes. Describe how you
and the other members of that first-year class,
how were you welcomed? Was there an opening event?
There was of some kind. They had a thing early in the
fall, just a welcome to the freshman class
in one of the big amphitheaters. They had some
little finger food, I think. That was about it. now
i've heard that al price used to give a lecture
about how to pronounce the word how to pronounce
and spell veterinarian and i can remember we
called him slick al but he he got up and he said v e t e r
i n a r i a n you will learn to pronounce it properly
and you will learn to spell it before you leave this
class or you will fail vet school. It is not
negotiable. I'll never forget that. And to this
day, I meet people, I sit on this national council
on education for veterinary school and
accreditation, and I'm the number of people that
can't pronounce veterinary. At Missouri. And I
was very close to the vet school up there. Because,
see, I was the chairman of the search committee
that brought George Shelton here from there.
Right. And then, unknown to me, when I was about to
be interviewed up there, they put the president of
the Alumni Association, University of Missouri,
on the search committee. Not a bad idea. He saw that
I had an A&M connection. So he called up the fellow
that he called Uncle George because his dad, as a
vet faculty member, had office next to George
Shelton for 21 years. And said, tell me about this
guy, da, da, da. And then see Richard Adams. was on
the faculty and dean, and then he became dean up
there while I was still up there, so a lot of... Now,
what were you doing in Missouri? I was a chancellor
up there. You were chancellor, okay. Either you
were president or... Well, the terminology is
reversed up there. Chancellor runs the campus.
Okay, because you left and you were president at
UTEP and chancellor at Missouri, okay. Because I
visited with Richard Adams when he was still at
Missouri when we were doing our accreditation
stuff a good bit. And see, when I got there, the vet
school was on probation. Right, a facilities
issue. Yeah. And I got the fellow that sat on my left
for 15 years that had a fair amount of money from the
beer business in St. Louis. And he made a big gift
that helped a great deal. That's what I heard. I'm
to do the commencement speech at the vet school
this spring. Wonderful. And when we dedicated the
Clivesdale Hall, as they happened to name it, the
senior young lady and speaking for the students.
She said, and in summary, Mr. Bush, what I want to
assure you is that on behalf of all of the graduates
of this vet school from now and in the future, I
promise you we will do everything in our power to
see that your profit is very good from
Anheuser-Busch. Drink that Budweiser. So did you
turn to anybody before that fall semester, any
practicing veterinarian or anything? I had never
worked for a veterinarian, hardly knew one. And I
went to Colorado. Worked horses and fly fished and
did my deal. Nope. And I'd been around medicine, of
course, all my life with my dad's practice, but
didn't. I was ready to go. And again, I didn't have a
clinical, this is what I've got to do type thing.
Instead, I knew that I had a plan right after
school. Again, the war's still going on. I took an
early commission. When I would graduate from
professional school, I would go on active duty as a
captain. So I knew that I'd be going into the Air
Force for a couple years minimum right out of vet
school. And as it turns out, I got an Air Force
health profession scholarship greatly aided by
my participation in the Corps that paid out vet
school. I was getting $400 a month back then just to
go to vet school. So when I left here, I owed no
money. I was in great shape. You just introduced us
to the first year program in vet, the first
semester in veterinary medicine. What kind of
courses? Basic courses, basic medicine courses
and anatomy. Everybody remembers freshman
anatomy. We also had a biochemistry course taught
over here on the main campus. The anatomy It's all
memorization. It's rote memorization back then,
but it had to be done. I remember one of our
colleagues that was real pushy-grabby, and he
would come to a table of bones, and if you had one in
your hand, he'd grab it out of your hand. You know,
because he wanted it. You know, he was going to
learn. His name was Mike Norton. And Mike grabbed
the wrong bone from the wrong guy one time and got
laid out right over an anatomy table, right there
in the vet school. That put an end to the grabbies.
Vet school was pretty, it was a new experience. I
was still in the Corps, but I would spend my days
with mostly, all of them older students. I was the
youngest in the class, but all older, many of whom
at least close to half had come from other
institutions. that many of them knew nothing
about A&M. One of my closest friends was, we still
had 10 contract students from Louisiana, Paul
Drake, big old coon ass from Ponchatoula, and he
would just call me C.T., Corturd. And with his coon
ass he'd say, hey C.T., but we got along fine. They
all laughed, and every once in a while I'd have my
uniform on, and they'd really get a kick out of
that. But it was all in good fun. And two of us, Randy
Dorn over in B1 and myself in Squadron 6, two of us
stayed in the Corps, and we would march to chow in
our white scrub suits because we had to get on to vet
school in the mornings and get back in time for
formation. And it worked okay. So you lived in the
Corps area, went to morning chow, Then quickly
hurried over. Went to the vet school, got in the
car. Vet school all day. Right. And there was a
snack bar, and we'd eat over there and snack on
something over there, and then come home in the
evening for evening formation. And it worked
pretty well, and it wasn't too bad. Compare the
rigor of the courses first year in vet school
compared to what you'd had freshman and sophomore
year, undergraduate. In some, they're a lot more
focused, obviously, but, and I would say they were
not any more rigorous than my honors colloquia.
They really were not. They were just more focused
towards where I was heading. And I had, and I was
taking a heavier load. And you were there all day
long. All day long, right. Did you sometimes go
back at night? Sure. And of course,
transportation was a big thing. But now I had
wheels, so going for evening formation and then if
we had something on at the school at night or I
needed to be in the vet school library, I would go
back over if I needed to. as a senior then as a, well
as a second year student then, when I was a senior in
the Corps, they were starting to get into clinical
rotations and things I needed to be there for. But
it was okay, it worked alright, it was doable.
Looking back on it now, were there some important
teachers, courses that first year in vet school?
Everybody has favorite professors and things. I
liked, Mike Tatum taught histology and
understood the core and was very encouraging. You
know, stay, go do, how is it, fine.
I think the majority of the professors, I remember
Dr. Miliff, I disrespected him because he was old
and he'd been there. And that was neat. I don't
think, what other? Some were team-taught, so I
don't recall. But for some reason, Mike Tatum
sticks out as being just very much a pleasant
gentleman. And Dr. Jim Anderson, physiology,
pharmacology, I don't know if it was first year,
but he and... Dr. Clark and others were just, and
Dr. Gleiber were real class people. I didn't take a
like their courses, but they were so pleasant,
such true gentleman scholars, true scientists.
They were cut above the average. They were neat
people. And the dropout or flunkout rate in vet
school was quite low. Very low. I think we lost a
couple students, probably three or four, and then
they were replaced early on. Were there women in
your classes? We had six. How were they treated?
With some respect, but not a whole lot. They were If
there were one or two that were, they got along
pretty well and they were okay, and there were one
or two that had a chip on their shoulder and they
caught hell every day. It never let up. And I
presume they had not been A&M undergraduates. I
know two of them had as married students. The
others came from outside, near as I remember. I'm
pretty sure, it was only six, and I think four of
them came from outside, two of them had been
undergraduate but were married. Were there any
black students? No, there wasn't one in any of the
classes while I was there. But it was not
officially segregated. No, no, there just
weren't. There were only four blacks in my class in
the corps total. There were no blacks on the A&M
football team until Hume McElroy came to play when
I was a junior. All right, let's jump back on that.
As far as you were aware, those four blacks in the
corps, how were they treated? Treated well. I
don't, there was no, again, it was pretty, you
know, colloquial part of the world to a point, but I
don't think there was any problems. The two that
had the roughest go were Fish Taylor and Fish
Webster that were in Spider D. Their problems
stemmed not because they were black, but because
of Spider D and the horrible attrition rate. And to
this day, I can remember, because Fish Taylor had
such a loud voice, other upperclassmen picking on
him all over the campus and I can remember being in
the academic building in history and hearing
somebody talking or listening to Fish Taylor
answer to somebody and then Humpett because he was
in Spider D and I and of course they both flunked out
but so did and that was the end of Spider D that was
the last year at least in at that point in time in
history they were disbanded after that year and
went into C1 and C2 and were scattered around but
now the the black students there were that stayed
on I think by the time we were seniors I believe
there were four and graduated, all of them have
done well. All of them got four-year degrees and
did fine. Like typists, this is not, don't need to
add this in, but I've told people here that blacks
had a much easier time being the pioneers here than
the first women did. There's no question. It was
way harder for women than it was for blacks. Oh,
there's no question. None whatsoever. And Fred
McClure is a superb example of that. So you were an
unusual person in being in the core and being in vet
school at the same time, and were there any times
that you recall that first year particularly when
you had to make a choice of which do you do? Yeah, I
guess I was in Ross Volunteers and we had rifle
drill every evening. And there were times that I
had, there was three nights a week that was
difficult for me to get back in time for rifle
drill. And so I had to get into my fatigues and get
out to rifle drill, and because I was late, I always
had to run extra. And there was not a thing I could do
about it unless I cut my vet school class short, and
I couldn't do that, so I just did the running. And
I'd had my knee surgery, and so my knee was a
constant pain and problem, and so I hobbled
through the RVs, but it was worth it. It was fun. And
you were selected as an RV at the end of your
sophomore year? or at the beginning of the junior,
whenever that happens. I haven't recorded this
before. How does one become an RV? Do you apply? I
think you must apply, or either that or you're
asked to apply. I don't recall. I think you're
asked, I don't know, I believe you're asked to
apply. Did you turn in letters of recommendation
or anything? I don't recall any letters of
recommendation. I think you stand on, there's a
selection committee, I assume, and I really, I
don't remember,
it's basically you know if you want to do this go you
know you're you're up you know would you be
interested type deal and and then go on and stand on
the merits of whatever you've done your first two
years who the selection committee was no was it
other cadets it would have been it would have been
uh rv uh rvs from the year before and how many are
selected we had three platoons of uh
approximately 20 per platoon i want to say
approximately 60. So about half of them were
juniors? No, those were all juniors, and then you
had a handful of, you had two, four, six, you
probably had about 12 senior advisors, and that
was it. Or you had your platoon leaders and the
first sergeant, and that was it. So you had 10 or 12
seniors, and that was it. But only two were active
with each company with the drill, with each
platoon drill in the afternoon. So really only six
after seniors that were there on a day-to-day
basis. How did you learn you'd been selected?
Don't recall.
I don't remember. I was the only one. Let's see. I
guess I was the only one in our outfit.
There was one other, Kort Koontz, no two, Kenny
Hill, Kort Koontz, and myself. Kort had come over
from squadron eight because there were no ag kids
in it. So the three of us were selected. And I
remember they had a little banquet at the MSC where
they handed us our yellow crapper cords. And that
was the last fun time we had as juniors. Well,
that's not true, but that was back before drill
started. And you were in the RVs two years. Just one
year as a junior, and only you could go out to drill
as a senior if you wanted to, but only a few that had
the time that could stay on. What were the
highlights of being an RV member that year? Oh, two
things. One was the governor's inauguration. It
was Preston Smith, and the main thing was going to
Austin. being an RV there, and we were in the, I
guess we were in Senate chambers, or the House, we
were in a smaller room, it wasn't full chambers,
but the microphone was on, and we didn't realize
it, and we were getting dressed, and we were
cutting up in there, and it was being broadcast all
over the Capitol. Did anybody attempt any
goof-ups or jokes? Oh yeah, we had, and I can't
remember,